# Day 1: The Tyranny of the Rocket Equation
The problem statement can be found [here](https://adventofcode.com/2019/day/1).
## Part 1
>At the first Go / No Go poll, every Elf is Go until the Fuel Counter-Upper. They haven't determined the amount of fuel required yet.
>Fuel required to launch a given module is based on its mass. Specifically, to find the fuel required for a module, take its mass, divide by three, round down, and subtract 2.

Alright, seems easy enough. The only challenge so far is finding the correct symbols.  

In a nutshell;
* ⍵ is the argument to the `fuel` function
* ÷ is the division operator
* ⌊ is used to round down a number
```apl
fuel ← {(⌊(⍵÷3))-2}
```
After defining this function we can create a new array for our values and use the `fuel` function and the sum function `\+` to find the answer.
```apl
input ← 118602 60644 136064 134771 [...]
\+ fuel input
```

## Part 2
>During the second Go / No Go poll, the Elf in charge of the Rocket Equation Double-Checker stops the launch sequence. Apparently, you forgot to include additional fuel for the fuel you just added.  
>Fuel itself requires fuel just like a module - take its mass, divide by three, round down, and subtract 2. However, that fuel also requires fuel, and that fuel requires fuel, and so on. Any mass that would require negative fuel should instead be treated as if it requires zero fuel; the remaining mass, if any, is instead handled by _wishing really hard_, which has no mass and is outside the scope of this calculation.

If you, like me, have never used APL before this will be a little more difficult.  
```apl
fuel_rec ← {
  (fuel ⍵) ≤ 0: 0
  (fuel ⍵) + ∇ (fuel ⍵)
}
```
The recursion has two cases:
* If the mass required is at most 0, we return 0.
* Otherwise return the fuel needed for ⍵ and recurse on the mass of that fuel.

Using this function and the summation we can find the answer.
```apl
+/ fuel_rec ¨input
```
APL had one more trick up it's sleeve and required the "for each" operator (¨) to run the function against the whole array.  
  
Thanks APL, you won't be missed.
